so i'm going to give you a little bit of
background here of exact target has
anybody heard of exact target
a couple people okay i want you to copy
these things down first
use your pens use your ipads whatever
the hell you want to use
the top link is to this slide deck on
slideshare
it's mobile hopefully slideshare i think
slideshare is mobile enabled
you have the ability to view this deck
while we're going through it now the
reason i'm giving you this link
is because i have a hundred and fifteen
slides
that we will go through in 40 minutes
for 35 minutes
okay is everybody cool with that so we
call it uh
it's just my form of presentation how i
do it we call it the crack presentation
so
you need to copy this link down now
remember to
capitalize f and capitalize c because
bitly hasn't figured out that caps locks
completely kills the link so if you
don't put a capital f or capital c
you will not get to the slide deck okay
company is in the middle
who's tweeting from this event
come put your hands up you're tweeting
from the event
all right okay so feel free to tweet if
i'm doing a terrible job feel free to
hate on me my bosses are watching this
feed so just remember that
um and then you all know the hashtag
right so exact target has 300 clients
in uh canada we're headquartered in
toronto
uh we were started in indianapolis
indiana as an email service provider
so we send about 11 billion emails a
month we are the largest
email service provider in the world we
have 250 plus mobile clients 200
enterprise clients in terms of social
media in terms of tracking
so we're a software that basically
handles all channels in one
system okay and we integrate with major
crms and smaller crm so we serve
a client base of enterprise up to
canadian tire walmart canada
rbc we handle all their mobile for rbc
and then a lot of other clients that
our sales director wanted me to say and
i lost the slide
that's a non-tweetable moment do not
tweet that so there's gonna be there's
gonna be
times in here where i say it's a
non-tweetable moment which means that
you can't share it because it's either
embarrassing to me
or embarrassing to the company so when i
say that just make sure that you don't
tweet it
and i know that some of you will that's
just why i say it all right um did
everybody get did everybody get the
slides
oh no
we are going to talk about exact target
the whole 45 minutes
is that okay with everybody
you're gonna switch out the other one
okay so i'll give you a little bit more
background while we're doing this
because i
might because i have 115 slides i have
to have a clicker or it's going to be
really awkward for harley
and uh everybody else
targus is just not working out today
logitech for life so i i do marketing
research and education for exact target
and so all the content that's in this
slide deck
is going to be stuff that we researched
in the community i'm going to say that i
don't
have any canadian baseline research that
is actually going to be released in may
of this year
so if you want to copy down
exacttarget.com sff
or just go to exacttarget.com and find
the research page exacttarget.com sff
you can actually download that canadian
research
um in may not now but so we're going to
have stats from brazil
stats from australia stats from germany
stats from france
stats from the united states and the
reason
why we're doing that is because from a
global perspective i think can we are we
all in agreement that global
is pretty much what we're all doing now
are we all in agreement on that
if you're not that's fine you can yell
at me or tweet just use my name so you
can
hate on me on there but we're all in a
global community because of the internet
because of everything that's happening
now
um so the trends have to do with
what we found when we've been
researching with our clients researching
with our consumers and researching with
uh just how to use different channels so
yes
keep going fast all right keep going
fast okay we're gonna go really fast now
we're actually gonna get through all
these slides in 20 minutes
it's gonna be the best thing ever um
okay so
out of the four out of the research it's
the channel 12
or i'm sorry 2012 channel preference
survey uh retail touch points exposed
marketers to mars and our global
executive summary which you can all go
download at exacttarget.com
sff so through this we're looking at
trends right
and so trends have to do with what
everybody thinks is going to be the next
big thing and on
what what is this picture of does
anybody know
google glass right who's familiar with
google glass we're gonna talk about that
later
um but i think google ruined it for
marketers because when google came about
i could change a title tag on a website
and i got on the first page of google
and i just printed money
right it was like raining down title
tags for a business
and it was the next big thing and so
when we as marketers took advantage of
google or bing or any other search
engine
i think it ruined us because we started
looking for the next big trend
over the past 10 12 years right and so
uh
facebook came about right and we're
still trying to figure out what to do
with facebook course
myspace with ol uh rupert came rupert
rupert came about second life does
anybody remember second life
yeah right bran spent millions of
dollars in second life it's that virtual
world where you walk around with your
virtual person and talk to
virtual people right you had virtual
products and billboards and
it was really weird they're still making
money but it's still odd still very
awkward
of course twitter came about path does
anybody use path in here
okay one one of the speakers that's
great
trend centers up here pinterest who uses
pinterest
70 should be women in here man good i
use pinterest too
uh we have a client boston celtics that
use pinterest all the time and they
actually track ticket sales
from pinterest uh vine of course who
uses vine
i saw somebody made a video to who made
a video today of mine
you did right okay so keep in mind that
of the population at least the united
states has no idea what you're talking
about when you're talking about vine
so more than likely if you're pitching a
social media like we should use vine for
video marketing
the people are going to be like we have
no idea what you're talking about right
because the one percent on that slide is
pretty much everybody in this room
okay so vine is another trend that we're
trying google plus
of course vimeo uh youtube welcome to
myspace now with jt right
jt is bringing it back with this hot
album and jay-z and all that jazz
uh who uses myspace my first business
sold myspace pages to non-profits how
many did i sell i want you to guess
you see you were what were you gonna say
first though zero that's true i didn't
sell any
no myspace pages were sold in my first
company
okay so we try to find the next big
thing constantly and
a lot of times we move to look at
journalists or people writing about the
content researching the content
to try to make informed strategies so
through this research the number one
is the undead does anybody have any idea
what this picture is of
number one treads the undead zombies
right but from what
walking dead from what amc so if there's
anything does anybody watch the walking
dead in here
okay i was going to be weirded out if
nobody did so um if you're going to take
down anything in this presentation it's
amc i want you to write down amc
because if you watch mad men the walking
dead and
breaking bad you pretty much have
marketing figured out if you can figure
that stuff out
those three things and the undead just
means that
we keep seeing seeing and saying things
are dead
because things are coming out constantly
right so i'm going to show you some
examples of this
why email no longer rules is email dad
haven't you heard email's dead according
to facebook ceo
uh mark zuckerberg says the emails end
as nilol
facebook is jeb for gen y what's next
twitter is dead long live twitter
uh blogging is dead why stupid people
shouldn't blog marketing is dead the web
is dead
the cmo is dead the death of advertising
death of big data
the death of big data was like two
months ago we just started talking about
i just got stressed out i was like
i've been trying to figure this out the
whole time
and now i'm just stressed because i feel
like it's dead now now what am i
supposed to use for marketing
i'm just going to delete my entire
database because big big data is now
dead
apparently okay and the reason why we
shouldn't look at these things because
it has to do with our database right and
all of these things that are undead
it's not true and we'll have some of
this stuff come out in the next couple
months in terms of the canadian
population but
if you look at research having to do
with the united states and canada it's
pretty similar
how we use things how we consume things
digitally okay
so this is from the sff report that we
did changing preferences
from 2008 to 2012 we asked people
if you preferred a certain channel to
get marketing which channel would it be
2008 in gray 2012's orange
emails 77 of the population online
consumers said they prefer marketing
messaging via email right that's great
i'm an email vendor you guys are like
okay whatever um text messages went from
one percent to five percent what was
interesting is we had three people in
2008 say they wanted marketing via
social networks
out of the 2000 people we interviewed
and it jumped six percent
well i can't do the math you know that's
a lot more than just six percent but
we'll just go past that is that six
hundred percent if it goes up
okay so six hundred percent it's much
better number than six percent
and the change in preferences just means
that when you guys are talking about
this stuff and we're talking about data
and we're talking about using
personalized content
it all comes back to knowing who's in
your database
it all comes back to knowing who buys
your product because i think a lot of
times
i'm going to say this and everybody gets
mad we're lazy in terms of how we
communicate
batch and blast messaging meaning we
send a newsletter out to a thousand
people
every month because we wrote one
newsletter is not going to
drive revenue or drive anything
because it's the same message do you
like being told the same thing over and
over and over and over again
absolutely not right and so we are at a
point
and that's why i love talking to
marketers number one because they're you
know we sell to marketers but number two
is because you guys are the innovators
in companies in major organizations you
are the one
that changed things right
is everybody in agreement with that
because it
yeah battle cry we got braveheart coming
in all right
um i think we need to understand that
there is a huge and massive change
happening
in marketing right now and i don't know
if we're ever going to see
this amount of change happen in a given
time period if you look over the past 10
years right if you take a snapshot of
the past 10 years
it is changing dramatically marketers
are changing dramatically right is
everybody familiar with gartner
survey company gartner research oh i
don't that's a non-suitable moment
please don't say survey company
because the gartner people kill me uh
they're a research company and they said
by the year 2016
the cmo will control more technology
budget than the cio
because marketing technology is the next
frontier of marketing
and data and math there's a reason why
best buy goes and hires
a rocket scientist from mit
why what is he doing he's trying to
figure out how to sell you a tv with you
actually
not actually telling us predictive
modeling right now the whole world's
going to go to hell because we have all
the smart people in the world working
for best buy but
that's that's fine they're not going to
be solving real problems and be solving
how to deliver tvs to people but
when we're doing our research it's
another non-suite they're a client
non-tuitable moment um customer life
cycle this is how we do it so when i
when you're thinking about this when
we're talking about the undead and all
the other changes this is what we want
to look at
awareness evaluation purchase usage
repurchase and advocacy
and every single strategy that you build
for your company should follow through
this
cycle for each individual consumer and i
don't care if you're b to b
or b to c because frankly i'm tired of
hearing that the b
to b and b to c strategies are different
that's absolutely crap
you're selling to a person you're
selling an idea to a person
right is that fair no matter if it's a b
to b or b to c now
there's a little bit difference between
a toys r us and a management consulting
company
but the high level idea is not so
through this two and remember you can
download this because i know you can't
read it
through this process you want to have
every digital touch point that you have
for each consumer
within this strategy right so whether
it's events
whether it's foursquare twitter email
seo sem you want to be able to build a
strategy around this so when we're
talking about business getting in
business keeping
it's about moving somebody through
awareness to advocacy
and where does social fit in on this
chart
where do you think it fits in where
would you assume that it fits in
everywhere but there's one important one
advocacy right in my opinion advocacy
and sometimes evaluation and awareness
but we're going to go through that
everybody got that everybody cool with
that and another thing if
if i ask a question you guys don't
answer i'm just going to stand up here
awkwardly
and nobody's going to have any idea
what's going on so let's we need to we
need to communicate with each other
because we're all communicators right
number two is social audiences um
social media in general changed a lot of
things that we do
i think it's still changing it but
social audiences have built that niche
type community that we need in order to
get a lot of things
so this is my favorite quote who's
familiar with we are social
okay everybody under amc because i know
you wrote it down
and breaking bad and all that stuff you
need to write down we are social
um they're a social media agency out of
the uk
london and they i read every single
thing that they send out
every day when they're publishing stuff
because they
are they know what they're doing when it
comes to social the savviest brands will
begin to build
small highly engaged communities where
they can learn more about what their
audiences want need and desire
and the most important part about social
media are is that
those four words small highly engaged
community
i'm tired i've been doing it for seven
years which
in the long run just doesn't seem like a
very long time but in technology for
some reason it's like a lifetime but
i'm tired of hearing about an increase
in likes as a way to prove that social's
working because it's absolute crap
how long does it take for somebody to
like a page
how long does it take not even a second
right unless you have real
a really slow finger or the or you have
like a mouse not a logitech a logitech
mouse works every time
but you actually can like brands faster
with logitech house
okay you it does not show you like how
we're throwing in the different brands
that are here it's great
um you it does not show engagement it
doesn't show brand loyalty a like does
not show brand loyalty
now it's an owned audience which is
important
but you want small highly engaged
communities to do a lot of things
a follower count that is rising is good
but it doesn't show success
at all
we cannot pitch social media as a job is
going to die
a very fast death if we keep pitching
engagement metrics as a way to measure
success
because it's not because it's all going
to come back to revenue and as
technology gets better math is going to
come into the equation
right what
somebody disagree or was that a cough
math is oh yeah that was like a praise
like a amen great
all right so look let's look at facebook
why do people like facebook pages and
i'm gonna go through these really fast
united states number one was to receive
a discount and promotion
uh number two is to show my support for
the company to others number three was
to get a freebie and number four was to
stay informed about the activities of a
company
france receive discounts and money off
promotions keep up to date receive free
stuff i shop with this company and buy
this brand
so france is a little bit more brand
oriented in general germany
uh to keep up to date do we see you guys
see a trend here to receive uh advanced
notice of new products to receive free
stuff or giveaways in exchange for my
email address
it's very pointed um uk to receive
discounts and money off promotions to
receive free stuff to receive advanced
notice
to keep up to date with the company's
products or services australia was
received free stuff
to receive discounts to keep up to date
with the company's products and to gain
access to exclusive content brazil
which is the largest facebook user in
terms of population
even compared to the united states which
is kind of weird to receive discounts
and money off promotions to receive free
stuff to keep up to date and to receive
advance notice
so when somebody is liking a facebook
page for the first time and keep in mind
that these are stats
they speak to the mass not the
individual it helps you
form strategy you shouldn't go into a
boardroom or meeting room and say well
kyle lacey said that 36 percent of
people like facebook that's why we
should have a coupon on our facebook
page that's dumb
right it just helps us form an opinion
around what we think we should do
to receive free stuff to get discounts
and to be informed about the company
why do people go to twitter why do
people follow brands on twitter united
states
to get updates on future products to
stay informed about the activities to
receive discounts and to get updates on
upcoming sales france to keep up to date
for a quick and easy way to keep my
finger
on the pulse of the brainerd company to
gain access to exclusive content
so twitter tends to be globally more of
a content portal than it than facebook
surprisingly right because the majority
of people are reading they're not
necessarily tweeting
to receive alerts for more information
related to receive discounts and to
receive advanced notice in germany
germany is probably the smallest number
in terms of twitter usage
uh australia and keep in mind if i come
back here in three months there will be
canadian slides all over this thing
to keep up to date with the company's
products or services to receive alerts
to receive free stuff and for a quick
and easy way to keep my finger on the
polls
to receive discounts so brazil on on
facebook and twitter actually flipped
they want content on facebook they want
free discounts on twitter
which i don't understand why we haven't
got to that point yet to receive free
stuff and to keep up to date
uk for more information for a quick and
easy way to receive advanced notice and
to gain
access to exclusive content so through
all this
it all has to do with content right so
why do people unlike brands on facebook
why do you think why do you think people
unlike brands
you see the ex-boyfriend just scrolled
out
company posted too frequently was number
one number two was my walls becoming
crowded with marketing posts
number three was the content became
repetitive or boring and number four was
i only like the company take advantage
of a one-time offer
what are the top three have to do with
sorry it's one word well being yes
annoying is one of them but that's all i
was looking for
who said content right content
it doesn't matter what channel you use
it doesn't matter if you're using mobile
email social facebook twitter
if your content is bad and you cannot
write and you can't tell a story
it's not going to work plain and simple
the the problem is that we look at all
these trends that are happening we say
we need to use this we need and we
haven't even got to the point where
we're using content the right way
you can segment your email any way you
want you can use twitter the best way
you know how but if your content's bad
it's not going to work
so out of social audiences it's content
but the one thing that social media
brings us
is the ability to co-create with people
that buy from us because who's your best
sales person
customer plain and simple that's it it's
not the agency
it's not the leadership it's the
customer because they know why they
bought from you right
so i'm going to give you example
co-creation but first we're going to
read a quote from
uh oh let's switch out again
anybody knows seth godin is
your hand if you know what stuck on us
oh perfect so seth godin uh
exact target was built this is hilarious
no more targus anymore logitech for the
rest of my life
you win good um there we go
you're switching it out marketing is no
longer about the stuff that they make
but about the stories you tell
exact target was built off the book
permission based marketing which is a
book that seth gonna wrote years ago and
it's the it's the idea of sending
permission based
messaging to people but he made this
quote in this book 10 years ago
marketing is no longer about the stuff
that you make but about the stories you
tell
i think that if we were going to do it
again it would say
marketing is no longer about the stuff
you make but about the stories we
tell and i think that if he would write
it again
it would be marketing is no longer about
the stuff that you make but about the
stories they tell
and social media is the place where you
can get people to tell you why they buy
your product
good or bad because frankly you can't
ignore it quit deleting posts off your
facebook page because somebody dislikes
something that you do
you think they're telling people anyway
just because you deleted it on facebook
is that like sucking the words out of
their mouth
they're like i can't talk about it
anymore
no it is not seth godin is not happy
about me changing his quote
so co-creation is the idea is that you
use social media to do that thank you
switch out does this work ooh cool all
right so this is the best example that i
have
who's familiar with hallmark they pretty
much own 97 of the grading card market
um i saw this presentation being given
by the hallmark guy
at the green card association of america
conference which is basically
hallmark american greetings and then
like some random people
um that's a non-suitable one as well so
life is a special occasion uh this is on
their face it's on their facebook tab so
i go there and i click vow to tell them
today so it goes login with facebook so
when i log in with facebook what
what happens what does hallmark do
pillage my facebook profile of all my
information
joke when it says this app will receive
your basic info which basically means
your entire profile
i'm glad that they put basic because
that's not true uh your
and your email address is if it's
associated with your facebook account so
keep that in mind all right so i say log
into facebook that's awesome i vow to
tell somebody something
uh my mom boyfriend john husband grandma
mary so i put
uh i sound like an idiot because i
should have put my wife but i put wife
so
i vow to tell wife like i'm demanding i
should do something
that something so you put in something
in there you can add a photo and then
you put next
say something about this of course so i
share it with all my friends it hits
their
news feeds and that's awesome and
everybody's liking it because it's so
sweet
um and then uh it takes me to this page
i bet
i vow to tell wife that i love you
you can create a personalized card which
they will mail to her
or him or it if it's your you know dog
or cat depending on uh what you have and
then um
you can print an in-store coupon so you
can print the coupon you can take it in
store do you think hallmark's tracking
that a point of purchase
yes because they spent a ton of money in
their pos system their point-of-sale
system
now most of the time retailers are very
far behind in pos systems
so that's just something to keep in mind
and then you can sign up for email from
hallmark
um to get information what is the
coolest thing about this campaign in
your opinion
wow i've never gotten that answer
fighting the digital wave that will
eventually kill them that's deep
the blockbuster people are like damn it
i lost
um should have listened to you
earlier what else what's cool about this
they can market directly to you because
now they know everything i like they
know i have a wife
they know that my marriage date is on my
facebook page all that stuff that's not
the coolest thing
they didn't have to you're almost there
they didn't have to ask for it i gave it
to them they had
250 000 people fill this out
in like 60 days i think what did they
get
they got a database which is awesome
because now they can track revenue with
this facebook
profile or facebook campaign they got
cards cards
card texts all the people that like
hallmark on their facebook page are
filling out a bunch of cards
do you think they're going to use this
content to put cards in the store
absolutely they're taking your content i
don't know if it's on there anymore
but they're making little images that
have your that have your saying
on it and they're publishing it to their
facebook page like an instagram
and the most likes that a thing gets
they turn into a card
do they have to pay for that no it's
about co-creation right
it's about your ability to take the
community that you spent a lot of money
and time
building and just ask them how to make
the product better
now what you have to get over in order
to do this
the true value in social media is not
sales
we're not to the point where frankly we
can measure that
i think if you spend a lot of time on it
you can if you do something like this
where you can print an store coupon and
track that revenue both from e-commerce
as well as in-store you're
you're doing it the right way but it's
really hard
for us to do that because it's a very
community focused strategy right
so it's about that content that
co-creation but in order to do
co-creation within a company you have to
get past the fear
of just opening it up and a lot of
leadership and a lot of people in
general do not like opening it up
to people does anyone remember toyota
what happened to toyota about
four years ago what happened recalls why
though
brakes right brakes were going out in
cars which moving vehicles brakes should
not go out right
so what did they do what did toyota do
other than recall all the cars of course
they created this thing where tell us
why you love your toyota car
they had thousands and thousands and
thousands and thousands and thousands of
people fill this out
and all the commercials that they have
now most of them where you see like the
fam
the five family members that every
single one of them have a toyota and the
little kid's mad because the dad has a
new one and he doesn't
was from the facebook account it was a
real family
and they crowdsourced ideas it takes way
too long for us to sit in a room and try
to figure out what tagline is going to
work on a direct mail piece
by guessing right so data comes into
that as well but that's the idea of
social
alright so moments is number three does
anybody know what this picture is of
other than the obvious
what is this anybody heard
it's a dog anybody heard of underwater
dogs
okay it's the best thing of all time um
some dude some photographer was sitting
at his house one day and was like i
don't know how to make money
no idea and so he threw his dog in the
pool and took a picture of it underwater
and started selling them and if you go
if you search underwater dogs on google
there are hundreds of photos now of dogs
just swimming
i don't know who buys them i i would
assume the owners of the dogs that they
almost drowned but they
but the dude took advantage of a moment
now this is not in a case study of you
going to your boss and saying this is a
great way we should use social media
because with dogs and putting dogs on
our billboards and all that stuff i mean
dogs work don't get me wrong
but dogs ain't any animal really other
than snakes and
snakes pretty much it um
he sold it well not one he sold he sold
a ton of one
and then just started taking in pictures
of a bunch of dogs underwater
that's it which is ridiculous
but he took advantage of a moment right
and i think in social we talk a lot
about moments
because moments are mobile so in the
mobility revolution i think that social
in general
um is a trend but if you want a trend a
real trend it's mobility in the past
five years
this is uh pope 2005 poop poop
poop 2013.
please don't tweet that the entire
catholic church is going to burn me at
the stake
um no offense to catholics i just called
pope poop but
um moments are global no okay
this is this is the uh i don't even know
what it's called 2005 to 2013.
what you're talking not a very long time
right
where people are using mobile more often
so moments are global
and i think that the mobile movement has
allowed us to be
more moment driven 85 of the globe has a
mobile phone
we know that they have some access right
who has a smartphone in here we asked
earlier
who has a clam phone somebody has a clam
phone there's at least one
wow you guys are innovative here i at
least get one
is there somebody that has a clan phone
does anybody know what i'm talking about
claim phone
okay nobody all right 85 percent of the
globe has a mobile phone 9.1 billion
mobile connections by 2015
and if you don't have a connection to
data you have a connection to sms
you have a way to market to somebody
right who uses their mobile phone
as their um alarm
does anybody get mad when you hear the
uh ringtone from somebody else's phone
that's your alarm
but it's their ringtone you like throw
the phone at them
uh but mobile also has to do the mobile
moment also has to do with email
does anybody do responsive design for
email
who sends email as a marketing ploy
ploy that's terrible okay so this is
open rates
on desktop webmail and mobile over the
past year and a half
i'm going to zoom this out a little bit
80 percent
february 2012 there was an earth shake
in the software world pretty much
mobile open rates of email desktop open
rates of email and browser-based so
desktop means
outlook most of the time mobile means
it's on my phone
and webmail means i'm opening it up in
like gmail on my browser
okay they converged in terms of the the
amount of opens happening on certain
things
33 of emails were open via mobile device
33 were open via a desktop and 34
percent were open via
webmail what happened in april 2012
mobile actually surpassed that in terms
of email opens
why is it important that the mobility
thing
is important to email to your marketing
why is it important
you have to write the email more
carefully what else
it has to be formatted if i get any i
mean it's you know what it is now it's
up 300 percent over the past two years
that we send 11 billion emails a month
of those are open via mobile device
that's it's almost a year after this 42
and it's only going to go up
what happens if i get your email and i
can't read it
if you have to do this
it wasn't designed right
does that also apply to websites okay so
what happens if i'm
sharing a tweet that has a link to
download a coupon or to go to an event
and i you know how many you know what
percentage of twitter users use twitter
through their mobile phone
64 percent of active twitter users and
that's straight from twitter
64 if i click that link and i can't read
that landing page that has a coupon for
me to download
or i scan a qr code don't even get me
started on qr codes
and i can't read what's on my phone or
the qr code is on my phone
you can't scan a qr code on my phone
right
it doesn't work and don't put qr codes
on billboards
right if you go to i know that all of
you are going to go to indianapolis
after this but if you drive around 465
which is our main highway
there is a bit i'm not going to say it
is there's a billboard with a massive qr
code on it
on a freeway like this is the dumbest
strategy i've ever heard in my life okay
moving on
okay so the point of this is if i can't
read it
you are missing it and if you are
tracking data and you see
open rates going down and you see
click-through rates going down
and you see that people aren't clicking
and or they are clicking on your tweet
or on your facebook post
and they can't read it you're not doing
it right
if your website is not mobile enabled
you need to do two things
you need to fire whoever's doing your
website stuff frankly
and you need to get responsive design
and i
that's harsh but it's true oh
there's a lot of upset people that's
true
i'm dead serious responsive design
responsive design is any tool that
you're using any any device whether it's
an android or an ipad
or a desktop or you know
any of the other non-apple products you
um
the the design of whatever you're
sending changes based off of how you're
viewing it and it's responsive to that
so if i look at a website on an android
i look at one on a
ipad mini and one on an ipad it changed
it's changing every time because the
layout's different
does that make sense
so responsive design is extremely
important to anything because
everybody's using their mobile device
it's only going to get more it's only
going to go up right
okay we already talked about this global
email open rates this was taken
in january this year canada is at 37
percent of all email
is open via the mobile device 29 on
desktop and 34
on webmail united states is at 38
january we tracked it uh
last month and it which was when was
last month march and it was 42 percent
so it's almost gone up four percent
this is from return path if anybody's
familiar with the term path they're a
deliverability cl
uh software product so
mobility is extremely important to any
of this and then you got this crazy
thing what is this
google glass i don't understand
i really don't understand to be honest
with you has anybody has anybody seen
the google glass video
you guys eating us so under uh am what
was the second thing amc and uh
we are social google glass video go
watch it
and then go watch the parody one where
this guy guy's like texting and a car
hits them and it's hilarious
but this is the future whether they can
design it to look cool and it actually
works this is the future it's mobility
and who's driving mobility is google
right
google is driving mobility it's not i
would like to say it's apple but it's
really not
because google is transforming the idea
of mobility
has anybody apple just bought a wi-fi
company did anybody read that
who read that does anybody know what it
does wi-fi mapping
maps the interior of stores
so that when you're using wi-fi in the
store it will actually track what you're
doing
as well as send you to the right product
you're looking for
if you're viewing it online it's all
product recommendations
like if i was viewing a pillow at crate
and barrel and i'm in creighton barrel
it's like
ding your pillows over here why
apple just bought one just bought a
company that does that
we have clients in australia that
actually offer wi-fi in their stores
so they can track purchase behavior
because overseas everybody uses wi-fi if
wi-fi is available
like 90 of the people like jump on wi-fi
they don't use their phones or they use
their phones but they don't use their
data plan
they also have this mobility driveless
car has anybody heard of this
same guy that did google glass as well
as the stanford online courses
built this car which is crazy
has anybody seen the the driverless car
commercial
it actually picks a guy up takes him to
a restaurant takes him to work takes him
to cvs and then takes him home
and the guy's blind the dude's blind and
this car drives them around
now are we gonna have drive cars that
can drive themselves in the next five
years probably not
there's going to be some instances where
it's going to get it's going to slow
down but this is the future right it's
mobility
it's our ability to personalize things
based off of the mobile environment that
somebody
and that has to do with text messages it
has to do with push notifications and
apps
it has to do with wi-fi it has to do
with applications
right because what do you do on your
mobile phone
what do you do on your mobile phone
everything right everything's on your
mobile phone who checks email on their
mobile phone
who stocks people on facebook on their
mobile phone force
okay so we're moving on so the message
moment i'm going to give you example of
text messages being used the right way
care first blue cross blue shield this
is actually a cross channel example
because it's a billboard
not qr code but text messages it's
actually a sign
plus text messaging so this is at um
i lost it again harley
just move to the next one if you can
before you switch it
so this is an example of a sign you
should really start eating more oatmeal
whatever it's for
to get insurance quotes health insurance
in in the states
and then underneath it it says text to
get a free quote
so whoever's standing at the billboard
can
text 59585
text health to 59585 or whatever and
they have the ability to put in gender
they have the ability to put in age they
have the ability to put in
weight they have the ability to put in a
ton of things and they will spit
back an automatic insurance quote via
your mobile phone
they will email you the insurance quote
to your phone
right and you can click a link and go to
the responsive design website where you
can fill out the rest of the profile in
order to buy it
that's an example of taking advantage of
a moment right why is it at a bus stop
because people are waiting and i have
the punch line that's
oh it works good okay reply with zip
code prompted to reply with the email
address so they got the email address
she replies receives an instant quote
receives a follow-up text announcing how
to apply
you can call for more info you can text
stop to quit right
so she gets the auto reply email
and then she can click to apply now on
that automatic quote now
a lot of time was spent building this
out the algorithms right
the ability to do that but they gave
somebody the ability to use their phone
and to do it the easiest way possible i
think that we talk a lot about strategy
and cool things to do but we don't think
about what the consumer is doing
we want to make it as easy as possible
for the consumer to interact with a
brand
or to give money or to join a cause
right
so campaign ran 20 weeks at
bus stops in lexington kentucky
generated 449 text quotes produced 200
leads and increased sales of that health
insurance
plan by 10
and they they bought space they provided
somebody the ability to do it and they
drove revenue through email and mobile
that make sense so this this idea of
mobility is just providing
somebody the means to do it now it takes
time to do it
but once you have it down once you have
it built it's much
how easy is it for them to do another
campaign using another form of of
traditional marketing it's really easy
now because they already built the
process
now whether it's alerts whether it's
emails
you have the ability to to send
messaging and then moments are social
does anybody know where this is from
most overrated marketing campaign of all
time
super bowl what happened power went out
and then oreo
was like bam in like 30 seconds
i give them credit for being able to get
through all this siloed crap
and delivering a marketing message
within 30 seconds i give them all the
credit in the world
but the problem is is that everybody
came out and said this is the best
marketing of all time
now they got a bunch of impressions and
that's awesome okay
what is this same one
lights went out calvin klein sent a vine
of the dude that was in the commercials
just working out
since the lights are still out it was
like six frames of this dude doing like
crunches
that's all it was and they got a ton of
retweets i got 100 you know this was
taken
i took this um
it was like mid lights going out so it
was way more than this 106 favorites
but they didn't they took advantage of a
moment which is important i think that
mobile and social are extremely
important to take advantage of moments
but what are they doing after it did
they capture anything from anybody
now oreo is a little bit different
calvin klein's a little bit different
your business is a little bit different
but they didn't think past that right
moments only work if we understand that
the consumer is multi-channel
moments only work if you upsell or
re-engage them
after the fact now oreo it didn't cost
that much money they had that was great
everybody talked about them do you think
that oreo sales went up because of it
do you think that they're tracking it
maybe but they're not going to release
it but that's what we need to look at
but everybody applauds them for what for
being quick
that's it right so let me give you
example papa john's is the best example
this this is also the super bowl does
anybody know
uh what happens uh papa john's what they
did this year and last year
you you uh chose which side of the coin
to and you got a free pizza if it landed
on it
they took advantage of one of the most
moments watched
most watched moments in super bowl other
than beyonce's halftime show
and they took advantage of a moment
right it probably cost them just as much
as a super bowl commercial but what did
they get
they got people's email addresses they
got their mobile phone addresses and
they got their addresses
or mobile phone numbers and addresses
home addresses do you think that they
are marketing to these people constantly
over the next year
do you think they're re-engaging them
six months leading up to the super bowl
or three months or one month leading up
to the super bowl saying hey guess what
we have another contest coming out you
should also do it do you think that
they're delivering them
direct mail with pictures of the same
pizza they picked for their free pizza
absolutely and this is great marketing
they took advantage of a moment
but they also delivered it based on you
could print the code you can order they
actually said
we they actually had email code to
myself and print code and they didn't
have an order now button
and then they just switched it out and
they had i think 5 000 people order
pizza from that order now button
just because they put it on there but
that's an example of user interface but
it's more of just taking advantage of a
moment that social moment that's
important
number four is data equals relevance um
jeremiah is going to spend a ton of time
on data so i'm not because he is much
smarter at it than i am
data equals relevance the ability to
take data to be able to understand it to
process it to extract value from it to
visualize it to communicate
is going to be a hugely important skill
in the next decade
plural does anybody know who hal varian
is other than google's chief economist
you know right what did he do other than
google i don't know
oh you read a textbook buying what was
the textbook
econ yeah he's economist he also was one
of the first people to help with the
internet
and is google's chief economist smarter
than most economists
yes they are just just a side note he's
much smarter
but the ability to take it and use it is
extremely important because data beats
opinions
you can sit in a room and talk about how
social is important you can sit in a
room and talk about how email is
important
but it's really the data
that should drive strategy now creative
process doesn't really need data
but data should be the one applying to
it data beats opinions data allows you
to deliver
relevant and timely content to people
because they have told you
what they want and you have asked for it
and you have used it
one of the most important thoughts of
the day-to-day was we can ask anybody
what they want but if we don't use it
what's the point
so data using data is extremely
important and i think we're going to get
in the weeds in terms of how to do that
already talked about that number five's
cross channel that's the last trend
i'm going to give you example of a cross
channel campaign
does anybody know what cross-channel
means is anybody getting tired
does anybody know what crosstale means
i'm not going to laugh at you if it's
wrong because i don't know if anybody
really knows what it means
cross channel is just your ability to
use multiple channels to reach this
individual mobile email social on the
same strategy
right yeah a lot of people call it omni
i heard try channel the other day which
was stupid
um dual channel
five is cross channel your customer is
already cross-channeling the best way to
do that is on your phone
this is the best example of why
cross-channel strategy needs to be
implemented within companies
social reviews social channels web
search and phone email and text and sms
we're already using it constantly we use
that's why we put things together on our
phones because we use them together
so why aren't strategies and companies
putting them together
the number one reason why and we talked
about it earlier is silos
companies don't communicate our
departments don't communicate with each
other if you ask social media people
what department they live in
how many answers do you get like 10.
pr customer service sales i.t the
executive team for some reason right
like you want to keep an eagle eye on
you just in case you tweet something bad
so when i talked at the beginning when i
said that we're going to experience
massive change
i don't think it's in marketing i think
it's an organizational behavior
there's going to be massive shifts in
how companies are organized
kohl's major retailer in the states
you guys have coles here kohls okay good
oh no c-o-l-e-s yes
they are also a client they're in
australia though um i think they're
australian company
is that the department store kohl's
supermarket
bookstore completely different than what
i was talking about
i've never heard of them thank you
kohl's
they sell clothes in the united states
they just hired a vp
of omni channel all
digital strategy is gonna be under that
one person so it's mobile email
social web all of it under one person
one strategy cohesive right
but it's gonna be massive change in
order for that to happen so i'm going to
give you an example of cross channel by
the numbers this is from nike
who's a client of ours in the states 10
campaign strategies
four digital channels four lines of
business
equal 160 digital messaging strategies
to implement
support and evolve
so we should be stressed out as
marketers in general we should be
stressed out since social media came
about and we had the ability to pull
massive amounts of data
but our ability to manage that data is
what's going to be important it's what's
going to make you
important in the future if you can use
data and content the right way
you're going to be the most important
part of an organization
plain and simple and that's exciting
right
is marketing necessarily the most
important part of a company right now
depending on where you're at sometimes
sometimes not i think you're going to
see
technology sales and marketing all form
into one system
in the near future but the cross channel
is just the idea that you're delivering
this messaging to the individual so
we're going to go through a
cross-channel experience here okay
everybody cool with that anybody named
stacy in here with an ie
okay good i know that there's going to
come a time where
the stacy on that picture is going to
like be in a room
you didn't ask me to use that photo 29
years old
married mother of five-year-old daughter
and two-year-old son elementary school
teacher
long time catalog customer to this
retailer
facebook fan but not a current email
subscriber has a monthly
neighborhood knitting night which is
really just a reason for stacy and the
rest of ladies to drink wine and catch
up
and get wasted while their spouses watch
the kids
her local store is in portland so stacy
bought a heart cookie cutter set because
she was making cookies for a class at
school
so she bought it online or she bought it
in the store that is shipped to her
and when her shipment arrives she
notices that the packing materials
contain a postcard
publicizing the get fresh with major
cook sweepstakes
so it's direct mail within packaging
that says hey you should go sign up for
the sweepstakes with your cookie cutters
i don't know who has anybody bought
cookie cutters in the past 10 years
somebody has oh good guy in the back
nice
i want to you know every time i give
this presentation i keep thinking i
really want to just go bake cookies
and burn the hell out of him because i'm
terrible at it but when her shipment
arrives she notices that the packing
materials contain a postcard
she types in the url for the landing
pages and redirected to the contest
social page
on facebook so a tab on the facebook
page
just to redirect it's pretty easy she
fills out the
her information so enter now stacy at
portland.ednet
she enters the contest and selects the
option to opt into promotional messages
from major cooks so that
she can be the first to find out about
similar offers that's great so we got
her email address through facebook right
so how many channels have we used so far
three right direct mail facebook and
email
and of course this is the perfect
scenario let's just be very frank
sometimes people don't fill out stuff
and that's fine right
but we want to give them the opportunity
to do it since stacy entered the contest
related to the cookbook
we automatically direct her to the
cookbook session of the retailer's site
she browses the items even adding a
cookbook to her cart
but decides not to purchase for some
reason she's at school and she has to
work
so she gets off facebook she doesn't
want to buy the cookbook right
seven days later we trigger remarketing
message via email
for the cookbook based off of her web
behavior so if she was browsing and she
didn't buy
who who runs card abandonment campaigns
in here
logitech does anybody know what a car
abandonment campaign
campaign is okay so when i fill out
something
this is this is okay this is huge for
those of you that have anything having
to do with online transactions
if i fill out something a product and i
don't buy it
and i leave for a lot of reasons it's
not just because they didn't want to buy
it
seven days later an email is triggered
back to that person saying did you
forget to buy this
our retailers that implement that see
between a 10 and 15
increase in sales based off of those not
overall sales based off of those people
that
left 10 to 15 percent of those people
buy based off of that email being sent
to them
it's just retargeting right so it's
triggered by does everybody
does that make sense everybody okay you
can do the same on a mobile phone
they would have to be registered users
but most of the time if somebody has
something in their cart the majority of
time they have filled out their email
address
or they've given your mobile number and
you can trigger through mobile as well
okay triggers an email right
i forgot that this was in here um
so through all this we're tracking her
behavior and i think that as marketers
it's okay that we're a little it's okay
to be just a little creepy just not
really creepy
okay so we're all gonna say this
together i completely thought completely
forgot i threw this in the deck
we're all gonna say it's okay to be a
little creepy together
and if you don't say it you have to
leave the room okay so like does
everybody
it's okay to be a little creepy so on
the count of three we're gonna say it to
god one two three
okay to be a little so a little cr thank
you the little creepy
is tracking behavior delivering
personalized messages based off of
purchase
really creepy is like going to their
house saying hey we saw you're just on
our website you should buy something
there's a fine line depending on if
you're in europe there's an even finer
line but that's a completely different
conversation
so it's okay to be a little creepy just
not really creepy so the igo digital
which is a product of ours triggers it
stacy reads the email at work but
accidentally deletes it
i accidentally deleted my coupon via
twitter
can you help get fresh cook sorry to
hear that stacy we have resent the email
too or
reset because it's an idiot typing it um
reset the email to you let us know if
there's anything else we can do for you
stacy stops by the mall and buys the
recommended book with her promo code
so within the retargeted email was a
code you could take for point of
purchase
and you could track that you can see
stacy got older since the photo at the
beginning
i actually i actually have five or six
that are real clients that we do this
through but
it depends on if they give you
permission or not so we usually just
tend to show you an example so we do
this with the nike fuel band
so if you use the nike fuel band and you
get email based off of your health
or what you're doing with the nike fuel
band it's all powered through ours
we power all of xboxes transactional
emails
so this is just this is just an example
this is why stacy
is now a completely different person but
um
so so the so the employee says would you
like to receive an e-receipt right so
something via email
so stacy receives a uh her receipt
but at the bottom of the e-receipt is
what what's at the bottom here
product recommendations based off of the
cookbook that she bought
so here's a knife set that you can cut
that steak
really well with you can tell that i
don't work for this retailer but
it just gives her examples of what she
can buy seven days later
after her cookbook purchase stacey
receives an automatic rating and review
email
rate the cookbook tell us what you liked
what you disliked about it
stacy fills it out she's also invited to
join the cookbook club which is another
automated
email triggered to her based off of her
purchase in the store
as well as recommended products that she
bought before she joins and adds her
mobile number to a profile
so she can receive mobile alerts about
cookbook clubs and events
that are powered through their facebook
page okay
more more chances to drink wine with her
suburban friends
or she gets an email or text about
upcoming things so this entire process
is just one example of automation and
personalization based off of somebody's
behavior
now i know it's retail and this is
extremely hard to do
but there's going to come a point in
time when anybody from actually if you
do
you can piece together enough now that
you could do this as with a smart with a
small budget
what happened oh okay so what we want to
do
this what we're looking at here is where
we want to get to and i don't care if
they're giving you money
i don't care if they're buying a product
we have to be better at delivering
messaging to people
based off of what they want because the
attention span now is
six seconds did you know that you know
it was four minutes 20 years ago
it's supposed to be four minutes based
off of brain behavior
it's six seconds now that's our
attention span and if you're not
delivering personalized messaging no
matter what you do whether it's b2b or
b2c
it doesn't matter what trend you take it
does it doesn't matter if you
have a path strategy or a twitter
strategy
or a facebook strategy it has to be
cross channel because everybody's using
multiple channels and that's the trend
so when we're thinking about strategy we
have to remember that every single point
of this process
each individual has a different strategy
if you don't believe me
just track what you do on a daily basis
right how many use you siri
even though she's wrong 70 of the time
that's just an exa that's just one
example and so when we're building out
strategy and we're talking about this
stuff it's important that we are going
to be the people
marketers are going to be the people
that's going to change organizational
behavior
because you will control most of the
data about the customer
or the or the donor or somebody that or
a pr campaign
it's all the same process i struggle
thinking of some of the people that i
work with how they adapt
some of these strategies to be to be big
some of these markets are
extremely small yeah people are
socially not with their business okay so
struggling with my comment on b2b and
b2c are not different
they are very different in terms of
strategy they aren't different in terms
of a very high level idea
you're creating content delivering an
individual based off of what they want
right now we're all selling to people
and if we are not basing a lot of our
decisions off of how
major retailers and major brands are
doing their marketing
do you think that's a problem who is who
is training consuming populations to buy
product
some major brands that are selling
millions and millions and millions of
dollars that's why you're starting to
see
marketing automation is a good example
of that if anybody's familiar with it
it's a b2b technology that allows you to
deliver content to people based
off of what cycle they're in in your
sales process
because i think i think the stat now is
by the time you get in touch with
somebody in a b2b sales process like you
talk to somebody
they're already 70 70 of the way through
the sales cycle
so i think that using social is more of
a content medium to deliver content to
them
more than anything else you're not going
to take an example of the nike fuel ban
and give it to a b2b sales person so
they're gonna have no idea what you're
talking about right
but when we're delivering content it's
still the same if you have bad content
i mean this this sales cycle we've also
worked with volvo construction
they sell major
big vehicles i don't even know what they
are bulldozers and such
to people that spend millions and
millions of dollars and they use the
same process
of personalization through the entire
cycle so i don't know if that answered
your question actually
it's hard it's hard and if they say it's
not different then you need to go with
it i mean you very much need to base
your opinion around what other decision
makers opinions are
right in order to get stuff done but
it's really hard for me to differentiate
the two
because we're a b2b sales company we
only sell to business but we use the
same type of technology
any other questions yeah so wrapping
your head around something like facebook
or twitter is
often enough for an organization the
level of sophistication that you're
asking them or
talking up here is yeah
quite large i guess what are you know
this might speak well to what exact
target does but
like what are i guess what are some of
the tips or tricks to get people kind of
so yeah so the question was this level
of sophistication is extremely high
especially when you're talking to
organizations that are still trying to
figure out twitter
like why the hell are we even tweeting
um which i understand i think that
at a very basic level when you're
talking about cross channel
you have to have a database i don't care
if you have it in
excel i don't care if you have it in a
legacy crm that you built 20 years ago
that breaks every five minutes
which happens you need to have a
database you need to know that a certain
customer
is on twitter you need to ask people are
you on email can we deliver email to you
you need to keep track of that i think
the biggest issue that people have is
that they don't keep track of their data
because it's hard
but social is the best way to do it
social is the best way to get it
and there are systems out there like
social crm systems like nimble
crm sugar crm sales force is another
example that will keep track of all that
stuff kind of
we're still in the beginnings of all
this but it's really hard to
show something like that when somebody's
still trying to get their head around
facebook
but it's just asking for information is
where it starts
and keeping it just somewhere and
updating it well i think it's
you know it really resonated with you
show that slide about 77
of people prefer to get their promotions
via email
yeah so many companies are consumed with
developing their social strategy better
when they could get the best thing that
you can do with social media people
or marketers is to talk about email
email is not dying
i was at a social media conference with
some of the top social media people in
the world
and email was mentioned five times in a
panel
what do you have to have to sign up for
a social network an email
now that's going to change don't get me
wrong but email drives revenue
and you can track that and it's great
for social media people because if you
push it together
you can say that facebook drove a
thousand people subscribing
we value email at forty four dollars a
person based off of sales in the past
this facebook page generated this much
revenue
now does that beat the opinion on
whether or not facebook should be used
absolutely so it's more of just being
able to
use all channels and not forget the
email is still the number one thing
honestly that's going to change
hopefully not in the next couple years
because then i'll be out of job but
that's just that's an example
yeah yeah just because i'm just working
my way through this i'm working with a
client right now
and they are they're definitely open to
cross channels and
put them into that but it's in terms of
the content they're putting out
that they're quite happy to say this is
coming up
late to the event it's an entertainment
place
and i'm trying to say that you need to
give more of a frame to it
you've got to give basic information
what kind of band is this
where are they coming from not just
kick-ass music
i think that that's not a cross-channel
i think they are doing cross-channel
because if they have landing pages and
email and social unless cross
i think it's just content yeah right so
open so an
example would be uh do us so if your
email provider whoever you're sending
your email through
constant contact mailchimp exact target
whatever do do two tests to the same
type of market do one that has
additional content in it and one that
has the one they want to do
and then show an increase in
click-through rates to that lead link
that link and show an increase in open
rates
so the best thing you could do with
technology is split test everything
you know this you could send the same
email with five different subject lines
to
different parts of your database and
test which one work worked
and then you get a higher click-through
rate does that make sense
yeah you can send two of them at the
same time and just track so
50 gets one type of email 50 gets the
other type of email and then you look at
what did better
and then you have data to beat their
opinion on whether or not it works
so there's no sort of card might my
feeling is just
you're opening it up to because it's
basically it's a place where we've got
uh for people it's amigos um
amigos are we going there tonight is
that here oh okay
okay they're dealing with a clientele
that really runs from like age
five to eighty five right and i'm right
now helping them identify through grand
identification for
food um also for their music uh and so
it's been a bit of a push to get them
there
um using social media but then
um i was hoping that they would just be
sort of hard to fast like you've got
you can't just no fans what's funny is
that
we talk about things getting faster and
they're getting harder
i mean the more channels you have the
more data you have it's not it's not
going to get any easier
but the best way to do is testing it and
showing them numbers and then
conversations are much shorter meetings
only last 10 minutes and then you get
more work done
we can talk after it as well any other
questions i know i got to cut it
off right done no more questions
all right thanks guys
you